GARDEN GNOME TACTICS?

Design, code, graphics and SFX edit: Daniel Remar
Concept and base gameplay shamelessly stolen from: North & South
Music: Magnus "Souleye" Pålsson
Thanks to: Christian Holmberg, Andreas Wilhelmsson



I strongly recommend using a program like Joy2Key or Xpadder and play this with gamepads, since the game doesn't natively support them!

In this two-player game you are two opposing armies, each controlling three types of units: elves, sleighs and cannons. Think of them as infantry, cavalry and cannons. Press the Change button to select which unit type you'll control - you will then control ALL of these at once, including their Fire and Special commands!

Eliminate the enemy army or their HQ to win. The HQ gradually loses health over time, but this cannot destroy it. Please see the in-game instructions for more info.

Originally made for my school's arcade machine (a Windows computer inside a cabinet), the in-game graphics will refer to buttons rather than the keyboard. Some arcade-only features were removed.



CONTROLS

Arrow keys: Move player 1 units
I,O,P: Player 1 Change, Fire, Special

W,A,S,D: Move player 2 units
C,V,B: Player 2 Change, Fire, Special

F4: Toggle fullscreen
Escape: Quit to menu, or quit game



HINTS AND SECRETS

The main way to win is attacking units your opponent isn't watching. The elves and sleighs can defeat a huge number of enemies in seconds.

To properly use the sleighs, keep pressing the Attack button or they won't do any good.

Your sleighs can only be sent out after they have all returned to position from the frontlines. Make sure there's not a cannon blocking their entry.

Press Change while charging the cannons, and they'll keep their charge. When you change back to the cannons, they'll fire unless you are holding the fire button.

Taunt: With only one elf left, after your elves' special command has been used, press the Special button again and the elf will taunt.

Draw / double victory: Taunt with an elf standing immediately in front of an enemy elf. Make love, not war!

Princess Pitch's Revenge: Hover the menu marker over "Quit" and press A. This secret level will appear at the bottom of the menu.

In the main menu, press Up, Up, Down, Down, Left, Right, Left, Right to see a stats page. You can also view it directly by opening stats.txt which the game generates. Some things in the stat page are unused since they were arcade-only, such as anything referring to "eggs".

Ownage: Win by army defeat in less than 20 seconds.

Rainbow ownage: Win by army defeat in less than 10 seconds.

The highest number of mine bounces I've managed is 7.