Finding out the location
---

1. Go to the pub and buy a beer.
2. Use the beer on the guy with sunglasses. You will be able to talk to him.
3. Ask him whether he knows The Butcher.
4. Once he tells you about his performance, talk to the bartender and ask him about The Butcher.
5. Talk to him again and persuade him since you know he's performing there.
6. The bartender tells you that he is playing, but you'll have to get 10.000 crowns to be let in.



Getting the 10.000
---

1. In your home, search the table and shelves next to it - you will obtain a wet bag of weed and a paperclip.
2. In order to heat up the bag, turn around so you're facing the heater. Turn the valve and come closer to the heater. There, press the button with the flame icon and then press the large black button. The heater will hum.
3. Once the heater is on, you can heat up the bag.
4. Go to the park and sell the bag the the guy sitting on a bench - he will give you three thousand crowns.
5. Search the homeless person (click twice) and you will find a chain and a knife.
6. Combine the chain and paperclip to create a makeshift fishing line.
7. Use the line on the small trash can, you will get an old phone.
8. Go home and plug the phone into the outlet next to your heater.
9. Go outside and check the truck. It has a number on it, but the last three digits are crossed out.
10. Go closer towards the truck and talk to the guy sitting there. Ask him about the number and he will tell you the last three digits.
11. Call the number from your phone at home.
12. Go back to the truck. The guy is now gone and you may freely enter.
13. Talk to the moron in the truck and stab him. Take the bag of weed on the box.
14. Go back to the park and sell the bag of weed to the bench guy again - you will get 6000 crowns.
15. Once the bench guy smoked both bags of weed, he will pass out. Search him for the last thousand crowns.



Getting the gun
---

1. Go to the park and search the homeless person (unless you did already). You will obtain a chain and a knife.
2. Go to the pub and talk to the bearded guy sitting at a table. He's out of booze.
3. Buy him a beer.
4. Leave the pub and enter the small alleyway - the bearded guy is there taking a leak.
5. Stab him and search him - you will get a gun and 100 crowns.



Ending
---

Once you know the location, have 10.000 crowns and also have the gun, you will automatically wait for the event at night. Simply talk to the entrance guy and enter.



Ending 2
---

1. Follow the instructions given after the first ending - including getting the knife.
2. Once you have the unique item, you have to feed it. You can give it bags of weed and have it drink beer. Once you did so enough, talk to it.
3. It will instruct you on finding something that grows in the ground, yet is not a plant.
4. Go to the pub and click the mushrooms on the poster. You will pick some. Give them to it.
5. Simply leave and witness what happens next.



Easter eggs
---

If you click on the white stripes on the road when you're in front of the pub at night, you'll get pictures of tricky and ewan, the betatesters for the game.

Buy the guy with the sunglasses in the pub a beer. Ask him why he's dressed up like that - he won't answer. Buy him another beer and ask again. You will get a small surprise.

Stab the bench guy in the park and then stab the homeless man. You will recieve a special game over.

There's loads of different things you can type into the phone for unique responses - emergency numbers, developer names, etc.