Liquisity TROUBLESHOOTING guide
v 1.0
by Mr.Chubigans
www.vertigogaming.net
--------------------------------

Liquisity uses a new game engine (GM6) that has a lower
compatability rate than any other game we've made. You need 
a decent computer with Direct X 8+ installed.

First off...and this should really go without saying...you
MUST UNZIP THE FILE IN ORDER FOR LIQUISITY TO WORK PROPERLY!

Here are some common problems:

1. The game does not run at all.

There are many things you should do if this happens. Restart
your computer. Make sure that you kill all open applications 
before running Liquisity, such as virus scanners, IM services,
and anything else. Next, defrag your computer. Once you do that,
try running Liquisity again. If it doesn't start up, you need 
to update your drivers and your current Direct X install. If 
still nothing, then your computer cannot handle the requirements
of the game. Goto www.vertigogaming.net and post in the Tech
Support forum for further help.

2. The game runs, but...

-It's too slow and the framerate is bad.

Liquisity has a fully customizable graphics engine. Just goto 
the options menu (in the main menu or by pressing F1) and click
on More Options.
Here is the list of things you should try. Once the game looks
good, stop at that step. Otherwise, continue with the steps.

	1. Turn Background Sprite Detail to very low.
	2. Turn off Water Bubbles.
	3. Turn off Water Splashes.
	4. Turn off Water Trail.
	5. Make sure the resolution is 640x480 (default) and 
	the Fullscreen is on (default).
	6. Switch to 16 bit color.
	
If its still bad, defrag and restart your computer. Turn off 
all background apps before playing.

-The music sounds weird/doesn't play/crashes the game.

All the sounds are in wav format...however, the music is in 
mp3 format. Just switch off the music in the options menu. Note
that the music might be switched back on when playing a custom
level, so switch it back off when playing one.


If your computer seems perfectly capable of handling all the 
graphics, I suggest you switch the "Background Sprite Detail" to
Very High. Otherwise, leave it at Medium (default).


Any more problems should be directed to Vertigo Games tech 
support forum at www.vertigogaming.net.