
PLATFORM BATTLE
Version 1.01

This is a game in which two players battle with in-game characters. A player wins a battle when he reduces the opposing character's hit points (the number displayed above the opposing character's head) to zero by hitting it with his own character's various attacks.

Controls for both players:
Use the WASD keys or the arrow keys to make selections in the main menu, and press space to confirm them.
Press "Esc" to return to the previous screen, and, at the title screen, end the game.
Press "Delete" at any time to end the game immediately.
Press "F1" at any time to call up this screen, and press "Esc" or click the "X" button at the top-right corner of the window to close it.
Press "F4" to toggle between full-screen mode and windowed mode.

Before each game, each player must choose a character and a level. A player may also choose to randomize his selection of either, or both. When each has selected both a character and a level the battle will commence in one of the two chosen levels, selected randomly.

Left Player Controls:
In the character and level selection menu, use the WASD keys to make selections, and press "1" to confirm and cancel them.
During a round, use the A and D keys to move your character left and right, respectively, and the W key to make it jump. Press "1" to use its primary attack and "S" to use its special skill, which for most characters only works on the ground.

Right Player Controls:
In the character and level selection menu, use the arrow keys to make selections, and press the right shift key to confirm and cancel them.
During a round, use the left and right arrow keys to move your character left and right, respectively, and the up arrow key to make it jump. Press the right shift key to use its primary attack and the down arrow key to use its special skill, which for most characters only works on the ground.

Credits
Made with Game Maker 5.3, by Mark Overmars
Icon made with Easy Icon Maker
Music made with PXTone and converted with FreeRIP
Original Concept: Teacup and others
Design: Isaac, Ben, Teacup, and others
Design Contribution: Grant, Ian, Ramen, and others
Programming: Teacup and others
Graphics: Isaac, Ben, Teacup, and others
Sounds: Resources from YoYo Games, the hot zaid, gotxbrains, www.findsounds.com, and others
Music: Ben
Game Testing: Isaac, Ben, Gabe, Grant, Ramen, Teacup and others
