Desperation 1.0
By The Enigma/Jabberwock ©2006 Divinely Uninspired Games

05/04/06- Began the project.
05/18/06- Finished the project (beta).
05/19/06- First public release (1.0).
05/20/06- Version 1.1 released.
05/21/06- Version 1.2 released.
05/25/06- Version 1.3 released.
05/30/06- Version 2.0 released.

All graphics, sound, and programming by me, meaning there is not a single line of 'borrowed' code. Which might explain a bit. Sound/Music taken from "The Postmodern Symphony" by me, except for excerpts from "Fur Elise" by Bethoven. You can't use any sound or graphics from this game without my permission, but you may distribute it as much as you want, just so long as you include this readme and do not 'reverse engineer' the game.

This game was made using the following tools:
Game Maker 6.1
Microsoft Paint
Cool Edit Pro

It was partially inspired by the 'La La Land' series by biggt.

Controls:
Left- go left, slow down (on slope, facing right)
Right- go right, slow down (on slope, facing left)
Up- jump (note that it is possible to jump while falling on a slope)
F5- save
F6- load
ESC- quit
X- commit suicide (if, for some reason, you cant handle the pressure (i. e. you get stuck); this is a cop-out so I don't have to make any more updates)
Also note that it is possible to "catch on" to certain edges by jumping almost to the top, moving toward the ledge, and then jumping again.

Version History:
v. 0.9 Beta- first completed version.
v. 1.0- fixed mistake with invisible objects.
v. 1.1- added a secret room and fixed a half-dozen or so collision errors; I am fairly certain it is now impossible to get stuck.
v. 1.2- fixed error with secret room and added another secret.
v. 1.3- fixed a small error.
v. 2.0- added five new rooms, including one secret and one new ending (Insanity). Added a new track of music and edited one already existing room to accomidate the new ending.

-----

We are the hollow men
We are the stuffed men
Leaning together
Headpiece filled with straw. Alas!
Our dried voices, when
We whisper together
As quiet and meaningless
As wind in dry grass
Or rats' feet over broken glass
In our dry cellar

  Shape without form, shade without color
Paralyzed force, gesture without motion;
  Those who have crossed
With direct eyes, to death's other Kingdom
Remember us- if at all- not as lost
Violent souls, but only
As the hollow men
The stuffed men.
			-T. S. Eliot