Aces High Over Verlor Island
Created by Martin Crownover (FredFredrickson)
Version 1.02 -  March 21, 2007

Contents:
1. Introduction & Features
2. Controls
3. Credits
4. Terms of Use




1. Introduction & Features

Welcome to Aces High Over Verlor Island (AHOVI), a casual 3D dogfighting game where you pilot a biplane and perform stunts and try to out-maneuver your opponents!  With the added functionality of the Reflect Account System, players can compete online in 8 player head-to-head bouts, or for the top high score in the single player modes.

AHOVI's single player games include Balloon Burst, a race to pop as many balloons as possible within the given time limit, Dogfight, where the player must shoot down 5 enemy airplanes as fast as possible, and Survival, a test of your endurance and flight skills.  Multiplayer can be played with or without a 10 kill limit rule, and are customizable to limit players, power-ups, and more.




2. Controls

Using menus:
	LEFT MOUSE - Click to activate a button
	UP & DOWN ARROWS - Navigate menu options
	ENTER - Activate a button
	ESC - Close the current menu / exit the game

Playing the game:
	LEFT & RIGHT ARROWS - Turn your aircraft left or right
	LEFT & RIGHT ARROWS (double tap) - Do a barrel roll
	UP ARROW (hold) - Speed skill
	DOWN ARROW (hold) - Slow Skill
	DOWN ARROW (double tap) - Perform a vertical loop
	SPACE BAR - Fire machine gun
	ESC - Exit the game

Multiplayer only:
	ENTER - Begin chat type mode / send message
	SHIFT (hold) - View scoreboard

	HOST CHAT COMMANDS:
	/players - view a numbered player list
	/kick # - replace # with the desired player number from the player list to kick a player

Miscellaneous:
	F4 - Toggle windowed / full screen mode




3. Credits

Reflect Games:
	Martin Crownover (FredFredrickson) - Design, graphics, coding, netcode, Reflect system
	Wilco Schoneveld (Fox-NL) - Netcode, Reflect system
	David Perritte (Ds) - Music, testing

Assistance:
	39ster - Winsock DLL
	John Leffingwell (Xot) - Scripts
	EyeGuy - Scripts

Beta Testing:
	sn0wb0arder381
	Leviathan
	Grandhighgamer
	Nighthawk17
	Neur0n
	BenRK
	DJKilo
	Lethalanvas
	Dracodragon
	Dregnought

Miscellaneous:
	Game Maker 7 (http://www.yoyogames.com)
	EO game Development Community (http://www.eocommunity.co.uk)
	Find Sounds (http://www.findsounds.com)
	PHP Freaks (http://www.phpfreaks.com)

Created with Game Maker 7 by Mark Overmars & YoYo Games




4. Terms of Use
By unzipping and using this program, you agree to the following terms:
1. You, the user, claim any and all responsibility for any damages that might occur, including physical, emotional, and / or material by using this software.

2. This program is not guaranteed to run on any system.

3. No part of this package may be altered or changed in any way, without prior written consent from the original author of this software.

4. No part of this project shall be sold without prior written consent from the original author.

5. Linked is ©2006 Martin Crownover, and all work contained within that was not created by Martin Crownover should be considered copyrighted by it's respective author.

6. The Game Maker 7 runner contained within this game is copyright / property of YoYo Games.  Modifying, adapting, decompiling or reverse engineering this game or the software contained within it is unlawful.  You may not remove, disable, modify, add to or tamper with any program code or data, copyright, trademark or other proprietary notices and legends contained within the object (compiled) code of the software.